# app-paraview: Paraview Data Analysis and Visualization

Rocky Linux based desktop with the [Paraview](https://www.paraview.org/)
data analysis and visualization application.

[ParaView](https://www.paraview.org/) is an open-source,
multi-platform data analysis and visualization software developed
by Kitware. It is used for scientific visualization and analysis
of large datasets, and it supports distributed computing and
parallel processing.

ParaView can read data from various file formats, including VTK,
NetCDF, Exodus, and HDF5. It also supports real-time streaming of
data, allowing it to visualize and analyze data as it is
generated. ParaView offers a range of features for data
exploration and analysis, including data filtering, slicing,
clipping, and contouring.

ParaView's user interface is designed to be intuitive and
user-friendly, with interactive visualization tools and a range of
customization options. It offers a range of visualization types,
including 2D and 3D renderings, volume rendering, and animations.
ParaView also offers support for scripting and automation,
allowing users to create custom workflows and automate repetitive
tasks.

ParaView is widely used in a range of scientific fields, including
engineering, physics, chemistry, and earth sciences, and it has a
large and active user community. It is available for download free
of charge under an open-source license, and it runs on Windows,
Mac OS X, and Linux operating systems.
